ABSTRACT
Understanding the historical evolution and transformations of design activities is key to improve design theories and methodologies. Peer production activities and tools, have been shaping most of modern knowledge based activities like science and engineering. These new collective processes are enabled by the new collaborative possibilities afforded by the internet. The first and most consolidated examples come from Free and open source software, eventually spreading in the hardware domain (open hardware). There is an evident and evolving transfer or these peer to peer practices, which are widely used and standard in software, into other domains. Examples of such domains are hardware design and engineering design. In this paper we study how open source peer production practices are being adopted in the design of tangible products, what specific difficulties related to hardware arise within this transfer and how it could evolve.


INTRODUCTION
> Recently, the philosophy and principles of open-source software have begun to be applied to the design and production of physical products. This practice of open- source hardware involves sharing the original design files for an object in a way that allows it to be modified or reproduced by others, including for commercial use. The recently drafted open-source hardware statement of principles [6] explains it this way: "Open source hardware is hardware whose design is made publicly available so that anyone can study, modify, distribute, make, and sell the design or hardware based on that design.” Open-source hardware has been perhaps most-widely adopted in the domain of electronic circuits, both by producers of do-it- yourself kits (e.g. Adafruit Industries) and of mass- manufactured devices (e.g. Chumby).
These companies publish schematics and layout files for circuit boards and computer-aided design (CAD) files for enclosures or other mechanical parts. Others can study and modify these designs to create their own versions of a product or to contribute improvements back to the original manufacturer.
We see these activities as a form of distributed collaboration, enabled by the internet and by the increasing accessibility of fabrication technology. This paper explores the nature of such open-source hardware collaboration through a prominent example, the Arduino microcontroller development platform. Here, we examine the nine variations on the Arduino Duemilanove (an electronic circuit board) that were included a comprehensive list published in 2009 by Make Magazine [8]. By reviewing online information about these variations and through present-day interviews with their developers, we form a model of open-source hardware collaboration. We find that its structure differs substantially from that of open-source software, emphasizing multiple alternatives from small- scale partnerships rather than centralized public processes. In this work, we are drawing partly on our own experience as developers of Arduino and of one of the variations discussed here (the LilyPad Arduino).
